README.md, before:

# Keepalived Exporter

[![Continuous Integration](https://github.com/mehdy/keepalived-exporter/workflows/Continuous%20Integration/badge.svg)](https://github.com/mehdy/keepalived-exporter/actions)

Prometheus exporter for [Keepalived](https://keepalived.org) metrics.

## Installation

### Debian/Ubuntu

Download the latest release from [here](https://github.com/mehdy/keepalived-exporter/releases) and install it using dpkg

```bash
dpkg -i keepalived-exporter-downloaded-pkg.deb
```

### RedHat/CentOS

Download the latest release from [here](https://github.com/mehdy/keepalived-exporter/releases) and install it using rpm

```bash
rpm -i keepalived-exporter-downloaded-pkg.rpm
```

### Binary releases

```bash
export VERSION=1.3.0
wget https://github.com/mehdy/keepalived-exporter/releases/download/v${VERSION}/keepalived-exporter-${VERSION}.linux-amd64.tar.gz
tar xvzf keepalived-exporter-${VERSION}.linux-amd64.tar.gz keepalived-exporter-${VERSION}.linux-amd64/keepalived-exporter
sudo mv keepalived-exporter-${VERSION}.linux-amd64/keepalived-exporter /usr/local/bin/
```

### From source

```bash
git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/mehdy/keepalived-exporter.git
cd keepalived-exporter
make build
sudo mv keepalived-exporter /usr/local/bin/
```

## Usage

Run keepalived-exporter

```bash
sudo keepalived-exporter [flags]
```

Help on flags

```bash
./keepalived-exporter --help
```

Name               | Description
-------------------|------------
web.listen-address | Address to listen on for web interface and telemetry, defaults to `:9165`.
web.telemetry-path | A path under which to expose metrics, defaults to `/metrics`.
ka.json            | Send SIGJSON and decode JSON file instead of parsing text files, defaults to `false`.
ka.pid-path        | A path for Keepalived PID, defaults to `/var/run/keepalived.pid`.
cs                 | Health Check script path to be execute for each VIP.
container-name     | Keepalived container name to export metrics from Keepalived container.
container-tmp-dir  | Keepalived container tmp volume path, defaults to `/tmp`.

**Note:** For `ka.json` option requirement is to have Keepalived compiled with `--enable-json` configure option.

### Keepalived on Docker and Keepalived Exporter on host

Set the `--container-name` to the Keepalived container name and set `--container-tmp-dir` to the Keepalived `/tmp` dir path that is volumed to the host

```bash
./keepalived-exporter --container-name keepalived --container-tmp-dir /tmp
```

### Keepalived and Keepalived Exporter on docker

Volume docker socket (`/var/run/docker.sock`) to Keepalived Exporter cotnainer in the same path and pass the args like as using Keepalived on container

```bash
docker pull ghcr.io/mehdy/keepalived-exporter
docker run -v keepalived-data:/tmp/ ... $KEEPALIVED_IMAGE
docker run -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock -v keepalived-data:/tmp/keepalived-data:ro -p 9165:9165 ghcr.io/mehdy/keepalived-exporter --container-name keepalived --container-tmp-dir "/tmp/keepalived-data"
```

## Metrics

| Metric                                          | Notes
|-------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------
| keepalived_up                                   | Status of Keepalived service
| keepalived_vrrp_state                           | State of vrrp
| keepalived_exporter_check_script_status         | Check Script status for each VIP
| keepalived_gratuitous_arp_delay_total           | Gratuitous ARP delay
| keepalived_advertisements_received_total        | Advertisements received
| keepalived_advertisements_sent_total            | Advertisements sent
| keepalived_become_master_total                  | Became master
| keepalived_release_master_total                 | Released master
| keepalived_packet_length_errors_total           | Packet length errors
| keepalived_advertisements_interval_errors_total | Advertisement interval errors
| keepalived_ip_ttl_errors_total                  | TTL errors
| keepalived_invalid_type_received_total          | Invalid type errors
| keepalived_address_list_errors_total            | Address list errors
| keepalived_authentication_invalid_total         | Authentication invalid
| keepalived_authentication_mismatch_total        | Authentication mismatch
| keepalived_authentication_failure_total         | Authentication failure
| keepalived_priority_zero_received_total         | Priority zero received
| keepalived_priority_zero_sent_total             | Priority zero sent
| keepalived_script_status                        | Tracker Script Status
| keepalived_script_state                         | Tracker Script State

## Check Script

You can specify a check script like Keepalived script check to check if all the things is okay or not.
The script will run for each VIP and gives an arg `$1` that contains VIP.

**Note:** The script should be executable.

```bash
chmod +x check_script.sh
```

### Sample Check Script

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash

ping $1 -c 1 -W 1
```

Commit message:

feat: add excluded vip support (#114)
* add excluded vip support

README.md, after:

# Keepalived Exporter

[![Continuous Integration](https://github.com/mehdy/keepalived-exporter/workflows/Continuous%20Integration/badge.svg)](https://github.com/mehdy/keepalived-exporter/actions)

Prometheus exporter for [Keepalived](https://keepalived.org) metrics.

## Installation

### Debian/Ubuntu

Download the latest release from [here](https://github.com/mehdy/keepalived-exporter/releases) and install it using dpkg

```bash
dpkg -i keepalived-exporter-downloaded-pkg.deb
```

### RedHat/CentOS

Download the latest release from [here](https://github.com/mehdy/keepalived-exporter/releases) and install it using rpm

```bash
rpm -i keepalived-exporter-downloaded-pkg.rpm
```

### Binary releases

```bash
export VERSION=1.3.0
wget https://github.com/mehdy/keepalived-exporter/releases/download/v${VERSION}/keepalived-exporter-${VERSION}.linux-amd64.tar.gz
tar xvzf keepalived-exporter-${VERSION}.linux-amd64.tar.gz keepalived-exporter-${VERSION}.linux-amd64/keepalived-exporter
sudo mv keepalived-exporter-${VERSION}.linux-amd64/keepalived-exporter /usr/local/bin/
```

### From source

```bash
git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/mehdy/keepalived-exporter.git
cd keepalived-exporter
make build
sudo mv keepalived-exporter /usr/local/bin/
```

## Usage

Run keepalived-exporter

```bash
sudo keepalived-exporter [flags]
```

Help on flags

```bash
./keepalived-exporter --help
```

Name               | Description
-------------------|------------
web.listen-address | Address to listen on for web interface and telemetry, defaults to `:9165`.
web.telemetry-path | A path under which to expose metrics, defaults to `/metrics`.
ka.json            | Send SIGJSON and decode JSON file instead of parsing text files, defaults to `false`.
ka.pid-path        | A path for Keepalived PID, defaults to `/var/run/keepalived.pid`.
cs                 | Health Check script path to be execute for each VIP.
container-name     | Keepalived container name to export metrics from Keepalived container.
container-tmp-dir  | Keepalived container tmp volume path, defaults to `/tmp`.

**Note:** For `ka.json` option requirement is to have Keepalived compiled with `--enable-json` configure option.

### Keepalived on Docker and Keepalived Exporter on host

Set the `--container-name` to the Keepalived container name and set `--container-tmp-dir` to the Keepalived `/tmp` dir path that is volumed to the host

```bash
./keepalived-exporter --container-name keepalived --container-tmp-dir /tmp
```

### Keepalived and Keepalived Exporter on docker

Volume docker socket (`/var/run/docker.sock`) to Keepalived Exporter cotnainer in the same path and pass the args like as using Keepalived on container

```bash
docker pull ghcr.io/mehdy/keepalived-exporter
docker run -v keepalived-data:/tmp/ ... $KEEPALIVED_IMAGE
docker run -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock -v keepalived-data:/tmp/keepalived-data:ro -p 9165:9165 ghcr.io/mehdy/keepalived-exporter --container-name keepalived --container-tmp-dir "/tmp/keepalived-data"
```

## Metrics

| Metric                                          | Notes
|-------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------
| keepalived_up                                   | Status of Keepalived service
| keepalived_vrrp_state                           | State of vrrp
| keepalived_vrrp_excluded_state                  | State of vrrp with excluded VIP
| keepalived_exporter_check_script_status         | Check Script status for each VIP
| keepalived_gratuitous_arp_delay_total           | Gratuitous ARP delay
| keepalived_advertisements_received_total        | Advertisements received
| keepalived_advertisements_sent_total            | Advertisements sent
| keepalived_become_master_total                  | Became master
| keepalived_release_master_total                 | Released master
| keepalived_packet_length_errors_total           | Packet length errors
| keepalived_advertisements_interval_errors_total | Advertisement interval errors
| keepalived_ip_ttl_errors_total                  | TTL errors
| keepalived_invalid_type_received_total          | Invalid type errors
| keepalived_address_list_errors_total            | Address list errors
| keepalived_authentication_invalid_total         | Authentication invalid
| keepalived_authentication_mismatch_total        | Authentication mismatch
| keepalived_authentication_failure_total         | Authentication failure
| keepalived_priority_zero_received_total         | Priority zero received
| keepalived_priority_zero_sent_total             | Priority zero sent
| keepalived_script_status                        | Tracker Script Status
| keepalived_script_state                         | Tracker Script State

## Check Script

You can specify a check script like Keepalived script check to check if all the things is okay or not.
The script will run for each VIP and gives an arg `$1` that contains VIP.

**Note:** The script should be executable.

```bash
chmod +x check_script.sh
```

### Sample Check Script

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash

ping $1 -c 1 -W 1
```
